1876 was also the year that Thomas Alva Edison opened a laboratory in 
Menlo Park, New Jersey, where he could explore the possibilities of the 
dynamo and other electrical devices that he had seen in the Exposition. 
Out of that laboratory was to come perhaps the greatest invention of the 
age - a successful incandescent electric lamp.

By 1890, Edison established the Edison General Electric Company by 
bringing his various businesses together.

During that period, a competitor emerged. The Thomson-Houston Company 
became a dominant electrical innovation company through a series of 
mergers led by Charles A. Coffin, a former shoe manufacturer from Lynn, 
Massachusetts.

As both businesses expanded, it had become increasingly difficult for 
either company to produce complete electrical installations relying 
solely on their own patents and technologies. In 1892, the two companies 
combined. They called the new organization the General Electric Company.

Several of Edison's early business offerings are still part of GE today, 
including lighting, transportation, industrial products, power 
transmission, and medical equipment. The first GE Appliances electric 
fans were produced at the Ft. Wayne electric works as early as the 
1890s, while a full line of heating and cooking devices were developed 
in 1907. GE Aircraft Engines, the division's name only since 1987, 
actually began its story in 1917 when the U.S. government began its 
search for a company to develop the first airplane engine "booster" for 
the fledgling U.S. aviation industry. Thomas Edison's experiments with 
plastic filaments for light bulbs in 1893 led to the first GE Plastics 
department, created in 1930.

GE's leaders through the years have built a diverse portfolio of leading 
businesses; a stream of powerful company-wide initiatives that drives 
growth and reduces cost; financial strength and Controllership that 
allow it to capitalize on opportunities through numerous cycles; and a 
set of common values that allows it to face any environment with 
confidence.
