The University of New Orleans (originally called Louisiana State 
University in New Orleans) was established by Act 60 of the 1956 
Louisiana Legislature in the wake of a citizens’ movement to bring 
tax-supported higher education to the metropolitan area. 

An ideal campus site was acquired when the United States Navy abandoned 
its air station on the shore of Lake Pontchartrain in late 1957. A quick 
renovation of barracks, service clubs, and other existing facilities 
made it possible to begin classes in September 1958, a year ahead of the 
original schedule. This marked the opening of the first racially 
integrated public university in the South. A total of 1,460 students, 
all freshmen and double the number originally anticipated, arrived for 
this occasion. 

By September 1961, when the new school had become a full four-year 
institution, enrollment exceeded 3,000, and the faculty had grown from 
the original 63 to 150 members. A Junior Division had been established 
for the academic administration of freshmen, and senior academic 
divisions had been established in liberal arts, in sciences, and in 
business administration. Dr. Homer L. Hitt, the first employee and the 
chief administrative officer, had been promoted from Dean of LSUNO to 
Vice President of LSU in Charge of LSUNO.

Two new permanent buildings, the Liberal Arts Building and the Sciences 
Building, and a central utilities plant were completed and in operation 
by the time of the first commencement in the spring of 1962. The initial 
class of graduating seniors numbered 115. 

In the summer of 1962 the Vice President in Charge was designated 
Chancellor. This signaled the end of LSUNO’s status as a branch of the 
Baton Rouge campus. 

In September, 1969, when the enrollment exceeded 10,000, LSUNO became 
the second-largest university in Louisiana. By this time it had 
developed into a large academic complex embracing several colleges, 
schools, and institutes, offering graduate work in many different fields 
and awarding both the master’s and doctoral degrees. In February, 1974, 
the LSU Board of Supervisors approved a name change, and LSUNO became 
the University of New Orleans. The new name more accurately defined the 
institution as the metropolitan campus of the LSU System. 

By the fall of 1983, UNO had an enrollment exceeding 16,000 and had five 
senior colleges: Liberal Arts, Sciences, Education, Business 
Administration, and Engineering, in addition to its Junior Division and 
Graduate School. It also had a School of Urban and Regional Studies; a 
School of Hotel, Restaurant and Tourism Administration; a School of 
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering; and various centers, 
institutes and divisions for specialized research. 

UNO suffered damage across campus during the aftermath of Hurricane 
Katrina, but quickly resumed classes 42 days after the storm passed – a 
unique feat among area institutions during the fall of 2005. While 
enrollment dropped significantly, the university was able to streamline 
operations and refocus efforts on key programs that are nationally noted 
or ranked while still providing the best possible education for the 
people of New Orleans. Hurricane Katrina and the levee failures hit us 
hard, but the story of UNO is about overcoming odds and building success 
at every turn. Since the storm, we have done just that. 

The University of New Orleans has grown to become a major research 
university. Categorized as an SREB Four-Year 2 institution, as a 
Carnegie Doctoral/Research University-Intensive, and as a COC/SACS Level 
VI institution, our students now enjoy a broad range of academic 
programs, nearly one-quarter of which are at the master’s or doctoral 
level. In addition, extracurricular activities, including NCAA 
intercollegiate athletics, an extensive program of intramural sports, 
and frequent exhibits and programs in music, drama, ballet, and the fine 
arts round out the student experience. 

On December 6, 2011, the University of New Orleans officially became 
part of the University of Louisiana system.  

Culturally, socially, economically, and intellectually, the University 
of New Orleans is one of the major assets of the City of New Orleans and 
the State of Louisiana. The University has conferred over 70,000 degrees 
since the first graduating class of 118 in 1962. UNO has distinguished 
itself since 1958 and will continue to do so in the future.
